---
layout: default
category: schedule
title: "Leveraging on GeoNode for World Bank GFDRR Group OpenDRI initiatives in developing countries"
presenter: Cristiano Giovando, Alessio Fabiani
day: wednesday
start: 12:00 PM
end: 12:15 PM
---

The Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) is a partnership of the World Bank, United Nations, major donors and recipient countries under the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (ISDR) system to support the implementation of the Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA).  Launched in September 2006, GFDRR provides technical and financial assistance to help disaster-prone countries decrease their vulnerability and adapt to climate change.  GFDRR works closely with UN agencies, client governments, World Bank regional offices, and other partners.

To meet the needs of a rapidly changing world, GFDRR Innovation Lab supports the use of science, technology, and open data in promoting new ideas and the development of original tools to empower decision-makers in vulnerable countries to strengthen their resilience. Recent innovations in the field have enabled better access to disaster and climate risk information and a greater capacity to create, manage, and use this information.  Innovation Lab activities are designed and implemented in partnership with government institutions and key international and local partners, ensuring that all activities add value in planning, operational, and recovery activities.
 
In 2011, GFDRR launched the Open Data for Resilience Initiative (OpenDRI) to apply the concepts of the global open data movement to the challenges of reducing vulnerability to natural hazards and the impacts of climate change. The OpenDRI team, in partnership with international and national agencies, has developed a suite of complementary tools to improve risk information through better access to data:
 
 * [GeoNode](geonode.org), a free and open source catalog of risk data and visualizations
 * 	Community Mapping, a community engagement approach that gathers information about the built environment through crowdsourcing (e.g., OpenStreetMap)
 * 	[InaSAFE](inasafe.org/en/), a open source tool that provides realistic disaster scenarios and their potential impacts 

In this presentation we will cover some of the projects for which OpenDRI is relying on GeoNode and report on experiences and leassons learnt.

